I will listen to it as much as you listen to me talking about that grave.
Draft-zero are podcast about how to be passive aggressive.
Hi. I'm chas fisher and welcome to draft zero. A podcast. Where to? Ozzy? Filmmakers try to work out what makes great screenplays work. Except for today.
And I'm stu willis.
Yes, because this is part two of our character motivations.
So even a serious because two part episode and we're doing a bit of a kind of a workshop. It's almost like many writers room with other people's scripts or movies, because only in one case today look script.
In essence, what we're doing is we're looking at films who have particular beats where the character motivation didn't work for Chazz or I.
That's not to say that they didn't work for you at Dear Listener or the general public, but they didn't for us any now.
Imaginary scenario. They didn't work for a director producer studio exec who have tasked us to,
fix or script doctor, or they just do a pass, a polish, something to come up like we're doing a polish and the like are we need to work on this motivational.
It's our motivation we've identified, so it's an opportunity for us to kind of use tools that we talked about in the previous episode.
She'LL get you to summarise because I can't remember them because that's how I roll.
Slash car be bothered to read the trailer board.
No to put those tools, tools and actions to see if they are helpful in a practical sense, because as much as draft zero is kind of, I think we're academic, but I think ultimately were interesting stuff that is utilitarian.
And we'LL see just how utilitarian these tools actually work.
So the tools were character patterning, which we kind of used in two ways.
One for me. The primary idea behind it is just that a character is a pattern that is set on DH.
In order to deviate from that pattern, you need that you need to justify it earlier so that the breaking of the pattern is in some part part of the pattern.
What you had a terminology that we didn't quite flash out.
But ever since had episode recorded Oh so long ago It's actually I've been thinking about it more and more, and I really like it, which is that characters have loops that they're stuck on without another input.
And so, you know, Tio, leave that loophole to create a new loop.
You need some kind of change to the system.
Which could be internal or external. Clarify that a little bit more because I talked had a bit of a Twitter conversation with Christopher Walker, one of our high level patrons.
So thanks, Chris. And thanks to all our patrons, we kind of clarified.
He's like, I really like Harry Toe Loop. But what's different between character patterning, it seems there's some difference, and what we kind of worked out is the character pattern is kind of the wake left behind the loop.
The loop is actually the character the Captain Pak carried to Patton is what the audience actually sees on the surface. But the loop is kind of what we is the writer's thinking underneath, and they're useful because the pattern is kind of the evidence.
Yeah.
Oh, they went this way like a forager. But you know what we think about The loop is a bit more to character because in some ways, when you change the input and the output may change the loop of the character.
But on some level kind of also reveals more of who the character is in terms of how they behave. We gave that example with Luke Skywalker in the previous episode.
You know his loyalty to his family in different circumstances is still loyalty to his family.
We actually begin to understand that as a kind of like a fundamental of his character within the concept of Star Wars, you know?
And then that become comma, shadowy version off it, as in the last Jedi, when things go so bad that he actually withdraws like that's kind of a negative Oh God, the negation of the negation that I actually use the negation J criticised in the newsletter.
Have we published the news letter yet?
They will have the news land before they had this episode, so yes.
Oh, dear patrons and dear listeners. I really like the distinction you've just made between the character pattern being what is revealed, Teo the audience, what is experienced by the audience and the loop being what is functioning for the writer underneath as they understand the character.
Because to me, the pattern on setting the pattern means viewing decisions like just having the character make decisions.
So the audience understands our That is what the character does when presented with these options, so that you know, when you revisit them later, you can either demonstrate how the character has changed or not changed.
And in fact, it makes us feel when stuff is a choice or not. If the same character has sushi every day for lunch, with clients not demonstrating for, it's a choice. It's a Tracy characters made. They're just not made it on screen.
So when they decide to have something else for lunch, and I'm using a very simple example, but that's actually the pattern. So we understand that that is a choice to do something different.
They've made a choice to have the same meal every single day, just not something we've seen on screen.
We're seeing a leap in progress.
Yeah, well, sometimes you do. As we saw, as we talked about in last episode with the commuter, we saw,
their daily routine over and over again, which a lot of this is to do with the time spent in establishing pattern. And we also looked at time in two ways.
Amount of time, spent just with characters showing revealing their loops or patterns so that you can then later break them.
But also when in the storey you reveal these, you test these characters, you give them decisions.
And we've tended to come down on decisions that happened at key structural moments in storeys because they tend to be the ones that are really important for the audience to buy into.
Because often a sequence break is about the pattern. Unless you're working on a procedural where the passing of the day is kind of naturally progressing the storeys most of the time the characters could reach a dead end and they either change who they are, you know they're educated or thwarted. Do use that one.
Yeah, So after character patterning,
time, we then had explaining or ex positing or debating the decisions both internally and externally, with holding this decision from the audience,
revealing loops and patterns through backstory, creating or enforcing character patterns through the world like the rules of the world and how they can influence,
decision making on then trustee,
Gold Stakes urgency to just get the plot to drive the characters through these decisions.
Do not give them much time to think about what they're doing, either.
Yeah. And of course, all of this was about trying to solve. The problem of this has happened, and I don't buy it from the character. I don't buy that the character would do that.
Or in that or in the positive to get the audience, to have a character like Luke Skywalker, who sky water,
in the under saying star water sequels Darwin, sickle hard Skloot Skywalker,
tohave a character who is loyal and we get a sense of their loyalty, but also to get them to go on that Saddam fall crusade to get toe, have your cake and eat it, too.
You know, sometimes that's important is a character I don't want my bad guy to do. You know, I know what I'm going to do this, but how do we get them to do this?
You know, often in the case of revenge, the real is the big bad is the person that dies by some kind of like accident that's comically forced upon them their trip over and run over by a car. I think you know, so we don't get them to do that.
And, unlike impart one where we had, I feel like a good spread of genres and tones of film and basically not just entirely superhero movies.
When you ask for a broad audience to find character motivations they don't buy often.
It comes down to these big Hollywood blockbuster summer movies, where the characters are so archetypal and so clearly drawn that when they do something,
that feels wrong, it gets the most amount of people,
jumping down the throat of that decision or that movie.
It feels a little bit selection bias. But I also think it's because those kinds of film and it's kind of genre coupled with G genre films because they aren't tend to be more about the plot.
So there's less air time given to the audience in terms of character, you know, because what a film like, um, I was going to say I like the favourite, which is a favourite of mine.
It is actually a little bit plucky, but at the same time, now is like a bit of a balance.
I feel like the beginning of the favourite was super plucky, and then it just that took the foot off the plot and just wallet in character.
Relaxed into carrot.
So where? So the point is that character doing films will tend to be all about motivation or you questioning motivation.
So in the case, off in the bedroom, when it does become here, it's telling them in the bedroom, which we talked about last time multiple times.
The third act thriller sequence is plenty, and that's kind of where we start to Christian motivation because it's very clear that there's a kind of character motivation in terms of them feeling grief in the second act.
So that's why else, I think there's a little bit of bias towards capital G genre. But I think there are techniques here and things that you can think about when doing character work.
So with all my talk of genre reveal and by we, I mean, you reveal what we're discussing today.
Yep. So we're going to be looking at Solo A Star Wars Storey Die Hard Predator to Logan Sicari O Tio Prometheus on DH potentially,
Martha from Batman vs Superman.
Dawn of Justice. And I feel that after rattling all those off, I owe Susie How dear listener and Patriots supporter.
You don't get an apology, you don't get an apology unless you're patriots. Well, that's one of the three is on your apologies.
Only if you now many people way potentially offend.
That might be useful marketing mechanism.
Before we do all that, I want to do my own little bit of follow up. So it helps us kind of transition a little bit, which is I did some thinking after listening to our previous episode about my issues with you guessed it Infinity War.
Avengers.
Remember?
And it's interesting because it's actually a misdirect. What they did. Good writing. So I re watched it.
My nephew Well, actually, he was half of it and then went home, and I watched the,
So if you remember, my biggest issue is thiss decision by Black Panther.
We're gonna put his real aim in relationship to vision and this idea that he was made the decision to sacrifice many people in order to save vision.
And it's a Mr Act, because the issue, I think that they didn't want us to think about, because it's to do with our empathy towards a character potentially.
This's me imagining a conversation that may want to happen.
Is it? Ultimately they make a point of saying Scarlett, which is the only one capable of destroying the mind Stone.
Santos has the biggest army in the universe, and he is not going to stop until he he gets vision Stone. Well, then we have to protect it. No, we have to destroy it.
I've been giving a good deal of thought to this entity in my head about its nature, but also its composition, I think if it were exposed to a sufficiently powerful energy source, something very similar to its own signature.
Its molecular integrity could fan and you with it. We're not having this conversation eliminating the only way to be certain that's too high a price.
Only you have the power.
Completely by her vision vision completely by motivation. There, right like it Sze kind of sympathetic, even if she's blinded by love.
The fact is, though she is holding everyone else hostage to that.
And I don't think there was an acknowledgement to buy everyone else. That was the case.
All that would have taken is my Panthers like, Well, I'm not doing this.
We should just kill vision and she's like, I'm not doing it And he realises the only way to get her to, but she will like ultimately, she does do it because she's not completely evil, but she wants them to try. And I think there's a way off refocusing it.
Which is Mohr. That tension off her affection for one individual was overriding her judgement when it came to the consequences.
The collateral damage to everyone else around you. I think that's really theme, interesting thematic idea.
But it may make us say that word that producers hate and it's something that we're only beginning to now unlock, which is why she's such a bitch was a male character, probably amount adieu with the theme was the other way around.
Yeah.
I think they may have called out on it. But there is that just that I'm Willie seemingly,
and unwillingness to allow because I've got notes like this allow female characters to be unlikable to that extent,
that were still afraid of having female characters that are unlikable, that there was this kind of that they completely misdirected consciously or unconsciously,
from the fact that ultimately the reason they couldn't let that black pant they had to do it was because it was even his decision.
It's that he was forced to it into it from Scholar, which and he actually had no agency over that.
And he could have said, All those people are on the blood of all my soldiers running her hands, and she's like fine soldiers.
You know, she could have actually been really cold about it, but it says a lot about her relationship with vision, and she could have said, There's vision is, is let's face it unique.
He's the only one of his kind in the universe, like there is something like she could turn the calculus around any that's kind of mind tradition moment, because I was like, if this was name, that's what I in this workshop.
That's what I would have proposed on DH. It could have been It would have come down to exposition, you know, Not a reveal, but it would have bean, eh?
Not withholding decisional. Been ex positing decision to use that tool.
But that that decision because it's actually them holding, they did withhold it.
Well, they did. They did withhold it. That's how they got all of the audience members passed you.
On her. Yeah, because they probably agree that, like you shouldn't have to sacrifice, because that's a horrible thing.
I need to trying to talk scholar which into killing vision.
Yeah, or, you know, they all agreed to try. And then suddenly she sees you could have had a moment where she's seeing the cost of it all.
And she does call it out and say she's on the board.
Why was she a bill This time? She's on field ticket.
Right that she just wanted to see them try. Right? That was what's important to which is again fair enough motivation, which is the easy option here is just to kill vision.
Let's make sure we actually try to save his life before before she will do what is necessary.
And that is something that we would understand that she would be willing to ride that thing really quite like really close to the line.
How far should be prepared to take that before she's like, Okay, I will kill my probably possibly gunny thing in the universe that will love me.
The thing in a non pra jor ity of sense like I just don't wanna gender eyes vision.
Even though you know Pul Ban here is a pretty nice specimen.
Yes, who's also appears in solo. And I mean, look, this Infinity War is a good example.
Is one of the things that we were kind of butting up against when we were choosing our homework.
We almost considered doing a whole episode one on kind of main character decisions.
And then a whole other episode on secondary character decisions is because secondary characters often don't have the luxury of time being put into them to justify their motivation.
So they're either extremely archetypal or stereotypical or part of genre conventions.
Or they have those horrible motivation dumps at the beginning and never have that challenged, Yeah.
Or at the end, when they're tying up. You know, James Bond is on the lying on the table with the laser slowly creeping up to cutting me in half. And this is my evil master plan, and this is why I'm doing it.
I'm going to be a pilot. Best in the galaxy. Heard about a job. Big shot gangster putting together a crew with these guys on Landau carriage.
If you come with us, you're in this life for good.
U n.
E got a really good feeling about this.
And so my issue with Solo is actually the character motivations off the one of the secondary characters, not,
Han Solo himself, although I do have some issues with with the motivations of his character in that film, but actually the Woody Harrelson character who I'm Googling right now.
But but But we should have Googling music round Just cutting it out. We should have like.
Several years that were kind of like looking up stuff so doesn't, like, sound like we're like encyclopaedia movie nerds, even though we are.
So the Woody Harrelson character called Tobias Beckett.
Oh, yeah, It's like a plan. Samuel Beckett.
Yeah. So this also ties back to the dichotomy of what you identified in this intro is the difference between,
the pattern of the character, as revealed to the audience versus how the character may be functioning to the writer underneath and,
the way that the reason I don't have any issues with the fact that Beckett ends up double crossing con at the end,
But I didn't understand his motivations in that double crossing.
Two Police Jazz Explain to me how what form this double cross talk?
How did you do? It wasn't. No. I mean, how do you do? It looks exactly like,
That is what I'm saying. I would believe you. It's not good.
But my associate already told me about your plan to rob me of my money and give the real collection to emphasis N'est.
And I don't know what you're thinking or what Kira may have told you. Care not Kira. Kira, it turns out, has a weak spot for you. And we'LL deal with that later. No, I'm talking about my other associate.
Can you come in and enjoy this, please?
I am sorry. Get.
Want it. Come on.
You weren't paying attention. I told you, don't trust.
So we have to lay out what Tobias is. Tobias Beckett's decisions that have been revealed to the audience to this point, right?
The decisions that he makes is you meet him in a war in a war zone on DH. He's planning a heist there.
Impersonating an officer yet.
His Han tries to blackmail his way in on the heist.
I just couldn't help but notice you're wearing a uniform pot full of laser burns. So either you healed rial quick. You stole it off a dead man and the Imperial Army.
You're thieves here to steal equipment for a job, and I want it. Well, now we gotta shoot him. No, Snap his neck.
And Beckett has Han thrown to a monster.
So first decision back. It doesn't seem to value Han or life or whatever. Fine.
But then Beckett ultimately decides to take on Han and Chewie in the face off objection from his lover.
Ah, whole future depends on this one school and you bring in amateurs. In case you hadn't noticed, we're a little shorthanded.
So we go. We need Zan sisters or boss, but no.
Instead, you're putting our lives in the hands of morons.
I've actually wished that they'LL survived and bigger diabetes.
Absolutely because here's the thing right. They're doing their classic tropea one last score so that they can retire and he can play this instrument in this distant planet.
What? Have you ever tried to dis invite a wookie to anything? Not a good idea. This's not funny.
Look, great instincts about these guys and size. Do you see any other options? I said you know what you're doing.
They know exactly what I'm doing and why we're gonna clear our debts. Go back to Gillian's.
I'm finally gonna learn about that, Val Accord. Thank you. Never get a plate.
But she dies during the heist, and from there there's still later mentions of him going back to this planet and learning to play the instrument.
But I never buy that because that was vow, like Val was what he was retiring to, not this planet or the instrument on.
I don't think after her death, there's a lot of gold stakes urgency getting him from decision to decision because.
You have any idea what you've done? We were not stealing for ourselves. We were hired by Crimson Dawn.
Crimson Dawn. Now we all them one hundred keys of refining co action. When they find out we don't got it, they're going to kill us.
They Ah, under threat. They are making decisions based on survival.
And so gold stakes urgency get you across all of these plot points. Get him on the adventure together and you know they're bonding with hard, even though at one point he says in dialogue.
We had a good thing going here. Me, you, Chewie, right? The makings of a solid crew does not work with Cura.
It worked with Val. He trusted her.
I want to know how I've survived as long as I have. I trust no one.
Assume everyone or betray you, and you will never be disappointed. It sounds like a lonely way to live. It's the only way.
That to me flew in the face off all the actions that he had been demonstrably taking by trusting everyone around him.
And so yes, and it ends up being an unintentional theme because we had a similar problem with with,
Han Solo, which he's a big edge, like those people that tells everyone in them is an outlaw and is the film and he's not really.
And in fact, what was disappointing about Solo is that it made his journey in a new hope less meaningful,
right, because essentially, it's the same thing he gives them, you know,
like Okay, so he's always that kind of person and there is an idea or an interesting version of that which is solo with someone who convinces himself that he's an out war, and he's kind of in denial about his goodness.
Well, I've got no problem with Solo being an outlaw. I think he was an outlaw. He did. Every action he took in the entire film was illegal.
According Teo Imperial Law.
Yeah. It doesn't make him his back, Dad.
But my issue was he He wasn't a scoundrel at any point. And then, you know, care has got that throwaway line.
Okay, Outlaw, You can tell yourself that, but I might be the only person in the whole galaxy who knows what you really are.
Well, he was always a good person in this movie. I've never seen him make a decision. That was selfish.
He fuckin launches the rebellion on then in the beginning of the new hope, he wants nothing to do with the rebellion anyway, taking taking Han out of it.
What I needed for to buy back its motivation of the double Cross at the end was to know what he actually wanted in life wide.
Did he want this money? He wasn't just a guy who wanted money. He wanted a life with vow.
So what did he want in the absence of Val?
Just more money. Yeah, it's like.
And so I felt like all I was missing was a scene where they actually mourned vow. And we saw how Valles los changes him affect him.
Hardens him.
And change is just purely What he wants is a character.
I have no idea What he wants is a character after Vales death.
He probably doesn't know either. It's okay for him to be lost, but then that is different.
I could be seeking revenge against hard and true Buck because he blames them.
You know, that's that is different. And then his darker. But I guess it e I think you could have the same film with Vow alive.
But her attitude to those two would have been a lot different, cause she's always unsuspecting.
She probably would've dumped him and, you know, when they did the castle run and that's that.
The difficulty. I mean, maybe, maybe what do you really wanted was a family, But then you don't get that moment where he betrays them, because ultimately what he really is after is a family.
But if he really wants a family, why's he double crossing them for money?
If he's feeling lost, Y z double crossing them for money. If he wants revenge, why is he double crossing them for money like.
It's kind of that becomes like a genre motivation thing, which is you need to understand that it's a Western and they're really that's what Western you know.
It's the archetypal thing, and maybe something that will become a theme is the difficulty when dealing with what by the genre awareness and general blindness.
So genre blindness is when characters don't realise what kind of film Layer must have famous examples or in horror movies where they do stupid stuff because they realise they're in a horror movie on DH.
Some films go out of the way, like zombie films were good example, when characters have no idea what to call something like they've never had a zombie film, right?
And it's like an alternate. Reality is like you're laughing, but we know what it is, right, like we've all seen those movies where they're like I don't know what to call it and we all do.
General awareness is kind of the opposite, but is usually on part of the oil like there is the genre awareness for the character where they do recognise it.
Zombie land kind of played around with it a little bit, but also there's only awareness in terms of character, where he tries to get us over the speed bumps of Storey by leaning into genre troops.
We don't need to explain to bias Beck. It's motivation here because we're waiting for the double cross because a soon, as he said, You can't trust anyone. You kind of know that he's going to betray him, right, and they don't have to build much motivation into it. It's archetypal.
On. Ah, lot of our problems here, and I think we're going toe. Come back to this is that we already had a loop established for Han from a new hope.
Yeah, the difficulty of writing a prequel. He's no long, even though they tried to correct it with you.
He's the heart who shot first at the end of the film, and I'm okay with that.
I would have just like a little more of a prologue. Where Heinz a little bit more ruthless, but he should We learn that.
And I guess the idea is that he learns that recklessness from Tobias.
But we don't have enough access to bias because Tobias no longer has a confident to sigh.
I'm gonna double cross these bees portion eyes because the main he could have had a scene with a vow when she's calling him out on it and it's in private and he's like we can if something goes wrong, we can give their heads, too,
to dry them boss, like we can actually pin this on them If something goes wrong, you know, and he blows it up and in his hand, the boys up this shit, like why he likes hard ends up talking his way into it and that's cool is high.
The idea that hard always just talks himself into trouble.
Such a great loop behind But the original plan is from human value is that we can use His naive ity is a weapon,
and we see that at the end because that's why he betrays them, because he thinks that we can I eat and Solar is actually learned from here.
Yeah. I mean, all of that would be interesting and instantly better without having to restructure the movie.
It's a scene. Maybe they even write the scene. We don't know as I'Ll talk about with Prometheus because I actually we'LL get to my issues and Prometheus in the future.
But I went back to John Spats. Draft-zero was alien Genesis.
I thought I thought he was alien engineers, wasn't he?
And then engineers was the fourth driver. Nailing Genesis was the fifth draught into the fifth row, and it was a scene that was like, Oh, this would have solved my problems If they shot the same.
Okay, Right. Okay.
Maybe they did shoot it. Sometimes people things take out things in the movies.
Yeah, because I want to I want to highlight here. Like I you know, you were saying he learns to be ruthless from Tobias, and I'm like, where in the whole movie? Easy being ruthless. And then I'm like, actually, that's not fair.
In the very first meeting of Tobias, he's extremely ruthless in Has Han killed Tio his knowledge, right?
Yeah. How many season, Mr Nations? Yeah.
Maybe the writers and the producers and everyone there go Well, that's all we need.
We've established to buy us as thiss ruthless, callous man. But, you know, then you're fighting against the fact that you've cast. We are.
It's once.
So maybe I'm not being entirely fair on the writer's either.
Yeah, you. Harrison always manages like he's charming.
Get casting positionally. We want to do with narrative stuff like not me going. You need to recast we Harrison because they'll be like, Fuck you! What houses in this movie, you're fired.
It'll be like, Well, we got to worry Harrison what you could be. And it could be that he's just opportunist, right?
Like he's like Then I we can use them. They can help us out if they turn out good for our gain. Great.
If they screw up, then we can give their scalps to Drayton, right? I think that's it's just a moment between them, and it's the scheming and as much as its exposition.
I think in the context of that relationship, it would have worked because it's like game night.
It's a couple have a pre existing relationship, and to me it would have worked enough. Maybe.
It's character exposition.
I mean, of course, you know, it's like a rise room. I'm pitching my idea, and I'm gonna be like my idea's the best.
But that but that's what we're talking about here. And the one thing that I like about this we're not trying to pitch the best ideas here.
But just in us going back and forth on this, I can instantly see very, very short amounts of time added to this film without changing the structure of it that would make me enjoy it more.
Well, we just got access instead of it being and reveal that he's double criss crossed him.
We could have, actually, instead of doing a reveal moment, like in the bedroom, revealing the decision were actually with device when he decides to betray them.
And, you know, I think you said this when we were talking about the double crosses. A reveal.
It's like, what was the point of that reveal? It could only be two people.
It could only be Tobias or Landau corrosion.
No. Yeah, and the surprises for the character, but I think actually firing the other option is we followed him like he has the fight.
He looks at them, looks a tte the she shit like he's got nothing left. The Millennium Falcon. Stan, he is, He's lost.
Val has lost everything, and he's like, Fuck it! And if we have that moment and then followed him going and we like, don't double cross Han solo hands, always working to a situation of dramatic irony, you know?
And it's not about the surprise that Tobias has betrayed him. It's what hands reaction is to.
That would be another option, and I've pitched this before. I mean, I was in a rise from today, and I'm like, Do we want dramatic irony or surprise?
Often we glean into surprise because it's such an immediate response for the audience.
It's the gasps from the audience, you know, and it's it's kind of it's like a lot off, like it's an immediate dopamine, a zoo.
A writer and I have been guilty of this that you lean in to surprise but often dramatic irony to beam or emotionally complex for the audience and sometimes we should actually go.
No, let's not do the surprise. Let's no, you know, let's know the device is going to betray him because that means we see the motivation in action.
He could be because what's his name could be like, Why you're doing this?
You know you're not going to buy an instrument and the like, no winning another group, like in the end, he I would totally buy that. Tobias is that any one of those people that, like is goingto work until it kills him?
You know, he's got nothing else. He's not going to Rio to retire for, so to buy.
It will be one of those people that will almost become self destructive in his behaviour.
And maybe that betrayal is a form of self destruction.
And that's okay. But we don't have access to it because they played is a surprise. So that's the other pitch rather than it being a set up.
It's a let's stay with the character and not hide the decision that's actually see them make the choice because we don't see that choice. It's right, the choices revelation.
Let's be with them when they make the choice All right way. Move on with Ali.
Yeah, well, I think that the point that you've made the reason why you want to bring up Diehard is here. We've got.
It's a good example. That's what I'm talking about. It just quickly just to be clear, I'm not bringing up the army and affixed a house because the answer is I never could. It is deep, perfect film.
Yes.
Within this skyscraper high above the city. Twelve terrorists have declared war. They're about to between.
Six hundred forty million dollars in the IRA.
But I'm telling you, you just got killed. Okay? Wait. Do it the hard way. You know, the last thing the clean once think is to be a hero, but he doesn't have a choice.
As much as in our part. One. We had bad examples here in our part, too were occasionally going Teo, talk about some good examples as well, for the purpose of contrast.
Yeah, they give us access to hands. Group is all what, like he is definitely a lot of P O V off hands river.
And part of it works because his motivation of Hans Gruber and his crew, the fact that they're criminals and their terror or are they terrorists is a significant plot point.
So I'm pretty sure that the audience is clued into him being a thief before anyone else is, like, actually end up playing it for dramatic iron.
Cardia.
Because I am interested in the six hundred forty million dollars in negotiable bearer bonds that you have locked.
But the point is, they give a lot of air time to grew up the court.
I mean, it's partly motivated because MacLean's like, What are they doing here, right? He wants to know, then he needs to convince other people, but it's fundamentally built into the plot that they need to convince everyone that they're terrorists.
So it's very clever way to make give us access to Ruber and his motivation.
So just just to clarify and summarise the reason why we are so certain of hands, groupers,
character motivation in the theft is that it is built into the plot as a reveal, like they're using his character be as a plot device.
Financed and very slick. How do you know that? I recognise that the ones they got must have cost a fortune.
What the fuck it means. But you got some bad ass perpetrators here to stay.
Because it ends up also then becoming a what's the double cross that he's doing on the FBI, etcetera, etcetera.
But the point I want to make is that we get an incredible amount of access to group and his crew the effects ofthe John McClane on them.
That it goes to time because we have time with him as a character.
We can be very clear on his motivations and his motivations are not complex. His plan is complicated but not his motivation, Yes.
He just wants to be rich. Six hundred and forty million dollars in bearer bonds.
For all your posturing, all your little speeches. You're nothing but a common,
exceptional thief, Mrs McClane. And since I'm moving up to kidnapping, you should be more polite.
So it's dramatic irony and it's everyone else catching up, so we understand his motivation, but they actually turn it into a question. When will McLain work this out?
And importantly, like in contrast to Tobias, what we're talking about here is character motivation.
If if the audience understands the motivation, they will buy the decision. Right. And in the case of Tobias Beckett, I've got no problem with the decision. I just have no clue as to what his motivation, wass.
And I think what I propose will give access to it. The other example. In a simple level, because it's more of a monster ability.
Is thie rubber cops equal predator, too?
Predator to he's in town with a few days to kill this Thanksgiving.
I mean, I I've rewatched it at your place because you had the the Predators Predator box set.
And I'm like, Man, this feels like a pallbearer over movie. I remember really liking is a kid, and I'm a big fan of help Arab Paul Verhoeven and I re watch, but it's really, like, feels like it was like a Robocop sequel.
And I got a letter box like thinking I'm like, drops him like mad inside to the film. And there's so many other comments. It's like Thiss was like a Robocop sequel.
That's really awesome, and it's like.
I'm sorry. You're not more original Studio.
Yeah, yeah, But there's this moment with Predator, too, and it's it's not because they got a build the mythology of the character, right?
First, women that we learn is a trophy hunter, the Predators of trophy hunters, Right?
That's pretty much all we learned about in the second one. There's a month there's two moments and they play a hand in hand because in some ways it's too ocular.
These guys don't think Donald Glover's Lovitz and his team gang squad I have no idea.
I'm getting kind of wiped out by the Predator, and this is a moment where a kid comes, sees the president has godlike, a toy gun or water pistol like Ames that the Predator and were like, Oh, shit, shit, The predator is going to kill this kid.
Take that.
And then he uses the heat vision and realises the weapons are weapons.
Leave the kids alone. So we kind of understand that this some degree of ethics with ethics there's like a There's rules to how the predator acts off the printer like he's actually, they're turning because they're giving the Predator choices beyond killing.
Yet rules to the character.
They're turning the Predator into a character because making choices it's no longer acting instinct, and it's not coming back to the antagonistic.
It's not that you feel like you can negotiate with it, then maybe you can. Maybe that's a potential cause as soon as you're making it.
Joyce. It's no a force of nature in a meaningful way, likely aliens or something. There's something else going.
But that that beat gives are so much. And look, I don't want say the obvious too much. But it is essentially a save the cat moment.
They've given the alien force of nature a save the cat moment, but it does so much.
It's like giving Jaws and George to a moment where its jaws to seize kid. It was like, No, I'm not in the kid.
It is absolutely like that, and that would completely change your experience of Jaws as a character.
Creature. Yeah, because their personality and they reinforce it. Because what happens is they reinforce the beat.
So Maria is the female.
That's the actress's name. Detective Cantrell works in the gang squad.
You can see he looked up. Wikipedia was in the gang squad with Mike Harrigan, is played by Donald Glover, and she is with Bill Paxton, who plays to take Phil. Paxton is still practised in this film. He's fun. He's actually really fine.
He's with detective. He's Detective Terry Lambert, and they basically the Predator gets onto a subway train and then ends up being us.
It's a really cool shoot out. Actually, it reminds me a little bit of the shootout in Snow Pizza because it's like almost like all strobe lights.
And he kind of killed the Predator kills Jerry Landers and Maria Maria Can Troll was runs on the station trying get passengers off the train. The predator comes up to her.
And then the Predator realises that she's pregnant.
Back. Basically, the Predator vision is like a second heartbeat looks at the baby and let her go.
And she never reappears in the concert in the film and all, like the fact that he say their safety is inconsequential to the plot, they actually get Eve the Predator, a character,
you're right and then ends up in a weird way, paying into the third film when you really like thinking tell in the end of the found when you kind of I think you begin to realise that the predator is young or ends up building them.
Haas off the Predators And in fact, I would say, probably turned it Mohr into a franchise than those beats made it more of a franchise in the first film,
right in the idea that these are people, these air characters in themselves, and we can explore the idea that they're cold blooded killers on make them heroes in a way that the aliens have never bean.
I don't think, you know, in aliens, Vester Predator, of which I have only seen snippets and same horrible.
I've only seen the first one, I think.
The aliens are still the villains, right? Yeah, well, this's That's how you do it too. Seems like.
So what we've done here is we've just had a brief.
I know we've started. We've started on a tangent, but looking at secondary characters and how it doesn't take a lot of time Tio provide your secondary characters with the pattern,
or the loop or the depth that they need, such that those important key decisions that they make,
in relation to the primary characters later in the film ah, motivated.
Yeah, because that predator thing never plays off.
It doesn't save my Carrigan's life. Don't like Mike pretends to be pregnant,
you know he doesn't like like in the first half, while I tried to cover himself in the booth in the hand of ready to do my little govern like straps like a baby to himself.
That.
It's like armour like it doesn't play up. What? Wise right? Like we're laughing, but there's like someone he pitched that right.
It's in that he's not like a baby beyond. Imagine that. That's my pitch.
That's my guys, guys, this is my pitch for that we're going to make nor the Predator my pitch is Then it's going to be someone fighting a predator wearing a baby on.
All right. So another broad character based problem is genre blindness, as you alluded to earlier, and I had less of a problem with this than you did.
But we're going to talk about the homestead sequence in Logan.
The world is not the same as it Wass.
She needs help where we're going.
Something's happening to you, Logan. You're not last right, man.
So Logan is kind of I don't even want to say it's based on the old man Logan Kind books.
It's It's like, nominally, We'LL claim to be the whole last of Hugh Jackman Wolverine Films. It's not really plot wires connected to the previous films. There's just enough hints to tie them together.
No mutants? Which does it tie into it? It's much as a spy. The dystopian gnome units have been born for twenty five.
Have you heard the the wonderful fan theory about the X Men films, Continuity and Logan that all the films, all the other X men films.
That comics.
Like the comic books that he gets shown?
Oh, yeah, Charles, we got ourselves an X Men fan. You do know they're all bullshit, right? Maybe a quarter of it happened, and not like this.
Yes, that makes sense. I mean, what do you need to know? I'm going to summarise the whole film. Where you need to know is Logan bleakness.
And then.
He takes care of Charles Xavier. We learned that something has happened in Charles has passed. He's kind of got a bit of dementia.
But in generated of brain disease. Well, it's most dangerous brain.
Meanwhile, Logan runs into Gabriella, who tries to hi Logan to escort her in an eleven year old girl, Laura Teo Eat in, which is they claim to be a refuge in North Dakota, right?
Can we Can we just put it? Make it clear in terms of character motivations, thie character motivations are, Yeah, mutants are dying out.
And the only thing that Logan wants is to get Charles Xavier somewhere safe. Where?
He can't hurt anyone else, that's super important.
Yes. So that's that's Wolverines motivation.
And they're in a world where mutants haven't been born for twenty five years. So they've given up all hope of any sense of cause other than this one want.
And what upends all of this is the discovery of the little girl who is a mutant anyway, homesteader sequence.
So essentially they being hired to escort Laura Gabrielle dies.
They end up through our argument, it seen arguing. It feels like it's slightly accidental.
The disrupt the automated trucks, which drive, eh family.
With some horses off the road, the horses run onto the roads. Abe uses his powers to get the horses back, and Wolverine helps the mail for them.
Come on, Laura. Let's go. Well, can we show our appreciation to three of you to a decent meal way?
They've got to eat somewhere.
You're going somewhere, Start with him. Logan's like We should go and Child and they're having a lovely time. Accuse a moment. And there's that sense of the sort of Democrats because we know they're being pursued.
So my issue it's not just genre blindness because it's actually by John or awareness.
I know this is the home state of sequence. I know what is coming.
I've seen enough films where it's like, Oh, God, the state with the family and the family collateral damage They're going to bring the fight to them Whether it's and the film kind of like explicitly Khan draws your attention to it by showing you accepts from fucking Shane.
Violence follows, you know, shit. But the thing is, Wolverine knows this.
Two days on the road, only one meal and hardly any sleep. She's like a fucking nineteen hundred reasons to keep moving. I'm not a box of other car stayed the night.
He looked. Logan in this film knows that everyone he loves gets hurt.
So does Xavier. The hidden subtext, which are Miss Rewatch came to me is like, Oh, God, the other X men died because of Xavier.
I mean, it's in there, but it became and actually hit me earlier because they play it as a reveal, like through the radio storeys about Xavier and the fact that a few hit men died in that incident.
And because I was dramatic irony for me. This time around, I'm like on something like I get the Logan is trying to hide saviour from the truth that he's hurt people he loved.
But Logan is completely away.
He even says it like there's a couple a T's tw one line. It's been a while since I've seen it, but where he says, we really shouldn't stay. We really should be moving on.
You know, this is what life looks like. A home. People love each other safe place. You should take a moment and feel it.
Yeah, it's great.
You still have time.
Charles. The world is not the same as the Wass.
We're taking a risk hanging around here, you know?
I know he knows. He knows they all know they're being pursued.
But Charles Xavier is kind of slightly naive. Unlike all we need to be happy, she seems.
No, but he's also trying to work on Logan as well. He's trying to convince Logan that there's things to live for people to care for.
Almost since Charles Charles Charles. Motivation links all waters. Makes perfect sense. It's fine. I'm not questioning that.
And then Logan is I OK? Go to bed. Will stay.
So is that. Is that the decision? You're questioning Logan's decision to put Charles to bed at the homestead rather than putting him in the current leaving.
Yes, but I don't buy it. It's not that I disagree with that decision. I'm not convinced that he thought they were going to stay the night.
I think for me to fix this issue for me because I'm like they know it's a problem.
Of course, it's a problem x to to what to four turns up, kills the whole family and kills Charles Avia.
Think that za heartbreaking moment like there is so much to love that this? No, this is a tiny little bit, but I'm talking about. But it stood out for me and I don't think I'm the only one that was like, Why did they ever decide to stay in that home step?
Yeah.
Why did Wolverine ever agree? Like he knows they're all in danger. He knows they're a threat.
He knows the child. Xavi is a threat. They just Charles Xavier just nearly killed a whole bunch of people at a casino like the film's explicitly gone out of the way multiple times to say they heard the people they love around them.
Why does Wolverine agree Tuesday and the answer is his shouldn't. He's appeasing Xavier.
Saviour goes to bed and they're walking Teo, him and the father of the family and walked to deal with the water, and he's like, Well, leave after this.
They go to show the city guys the Shane beat of they basically go to the pub to broth.
Yeah, and he could be like. But before that happens, he's like, Look, I was just saying that to make my dad happy so you could fall asleep.
We'Ll get back up What? He'LL be fast asleep by putting in the back of the unit again. I'll leave.
That's all I needed because otherwise I do not believe that he would have stayed there for twelve hours. Like everything in me is going, this is a bad idea, you know, it's a bad idea.
The only reason you're staying is because you need the plot to catch up to you.
You need to plant near the bad guys to catch up to you. And that's exactly what happens and what enough worked like. I completely belay. He's just he's just a little bit too slow in moving on.
It's happy to slow down, and that's still were feeding. Teo is despair. In fact, it's going to make his despair worse. If he's like, I shouldn't even helped this guy helping people just killed them.
That's it. That's it with that, that's all I would have done to fix my issue with that, I don't know if anyone else had the same issue.
Maybe you can all right, in and go. No, it was fine. I completely by that human Charles A via the mind that's a weapon of mass destruction would stay overnight at someone's house where they're being pursued by murderous killers.
And I'll still tell your freaking idiots we all know that.
Anyway, I don't wantto kind of This is sort of turning into what I was. We're teetering on the edge of what? I'm afraid this episode could.
The dark shadow version of draft zero.
Yeah, where we just like where we just hammer movies when you and I both love Logan and we're.
It's like a nine and a half out of ten kill like it lost half the mark out of ten for the Just Give me that moment way you show me that Wolverine understands and he's just trying to pee is appeasing him, but anyway,
to move on.
Yeah, you when we were choosing homework for this Because we've been planning this bloody episode for so long A seven point text me and say, Hey, have you seen scenario too? I was like, Yeah.
Cartel help the terrorists get to the porter.
The president's adding drug cartels to the list of terrorist organisations. You can understand how that will expand our ability to combat them. You want to see this thing through?
I'm gonna have to get dirty. Dirty is exactly why you're here.
Help you start a war with who everyone.
No rules this time.
Excited to get into this for a couple of reasons. I think it's a really strong example for a couple of reasons. One is you and I both love Taylor Sheridan as a writer.
And so this is not us just jumping on a bandwagon to attack a broad, big blockbuster.
Way. Love him is right. But also he only basically writes men that express themselves through violence Well.
Yeah, The other reason why the Security is a really good example is that it is a direct sequel and the two different main characters.
Alejandro paid by Benicio Del Toro. And what's Josh Brolin's character's name?
Matt Graver.
Matt Graver. Okay, so graver and hundreds. They We've had character loops and character patterns established by a previous film, so you know, it's almost like a TV problem.
How much time do you have to do to break these loops? So which one do you want to do first?
We don't. It's been a while since I've watched it in. The film's faded from my memory, you know?
Plus, apparently there's like talk about this today, which is that there are things that Trump's talked about in these speeches about the border that are like images ripped out directly from sake cario to so.
Yes, there's, I think, some troubling political aspects to see carrier too.
I think so. Cario one was definitely delved into the complexities of this. And this is more like special activity divisions of the CIA, a badass, and really, we should just let them operate within U. S. Territory.
But I feel like you've got the same problems with this that a lot of people had with,
zero dark thirty and subsequently with Detroit, which is I don't think the film is painting these characters as people to be looked up two.
Except for except for the third act, right? Which is Matt Graver there?
Okay, So talking about parents. One of the ways that they re established Josh Brolin's character because much of direct sequel it is kind of like a Tom Clancy war pattern, and I like Tom Clancy.
I'm watching Jack Ryan right now.
You know, it's also telling that Tom Clancy.
You think I'm gonna water? What? You miss you.
When we can't torture? This is Africa. I could do whatever the fuck I want here. You gonna answer every question I ask you without me harming a hair on your head? Do you want to know why?
Because don't.
I'm gonna call in an air strike on your house.
Basically, what this film is trying to do is, say, the Mexican drug cartels, people smuggling and they take money from terrorists, right? It's trying to can.
And this is the political stuff. Like Muddy. We should be afraid drug cartels because they're in bed.
Josh Bond, Matt Graver. They go out of their way to show in the beginning.
Matt Graver basically to get a terrorist to give up some information or potential terrorists to give up. Cem Information related Suze Terrorist bombings within U. S.
Territory users a drone Teo Yeah, his brother and one by one, no remorse.
Block his family.
And graver is a shark.
He shows no kind of empathy is a psychopath is like a high functioning sub clinical psychopath.
He shows no empathy to the terrorist at all when he orders thes drone strikes.
Your brother. I want to kill the poor guy.
He's absolutely feels entitled to use violence as a means of operate.
Which is completely in line with the loops established in the first film.
The difference with the first film is even though Graver was arguably the driver of the plot in the first film and for the new listeners, We did a deep dive into Saqqara in as an example of how you Khun Divide,
character functions between a protagonist who drives the plot and then a main character who is the point of view.
Experienced character because in sick, Correa won.
Emily Blunt's character is the point of view character for both for the audience, even though she is very little agency and very rarely drives the plot.
But so Matt Graver in that opening sequence, he's completely re establishing the loops and patterns established in the first film.
Now I think I'm going to go first with this because my character points happened earlier in the plot, so.
You can then main summarise the plot. I'm letting you do that.
Yeah. So broadly speaking, Yes. He talked to someone to find out that cartel is smuggling people across the border.
And they happen to also be smuggling terrorists across the border into the US So the mandate of Matt Graver is to disrupt the cartels.
Next week. The president's adding drug cartels to the list of terrorist. You can understand how that will expand our ability to combat them.
The cartel territories air fairly stable at the moment. But as we learned in Iraq, strike in your enemy is a whole hell of a lot easier. They're fighting each other.
That's saying, correct me off because he's like he's like I would disrupt the cartels in the same way we disrupted the power base operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. I'm like, Yeah, because that worked so well. Like, are you guys fucking?
It's the reason you've been finding I, like Isis is such an issue. But exactly of how you fucked up post war reconstruction Iraq, like he was just so, like, blindly dumb.
Hey!
And maybe I'm just meant to believe that these characters were arrogant enough to think that they did a good job. Sorry, this is making.
Okay, so in order, Teo, start this war at Graver goes and enlists Alejandro's character.
No rules this time.
Carlos Reyes.
Was that for those?
That's your chance. It even for your family.
Now, for those of you don't know in the first film, spoilers, as always with draft zero, Alejandro takes over the first film for a sequence late in the film where he goes and murders,
the Suns and wife off a cartel leader in front of the cartel leader.
Before killing the cartel with.
Without any compunction and then returns to threatened Emily Blunt, the point of view character in the film.
And Matt Grevers up offer here is Hey, Alejandro, this is that guy's boss you can take on.
You can kidnap the daughter of that guy's boss and trigger a war there.
Great, he's on board. So that character loop is also re established that this guy will do anything to further his revenge against the people who it's a revenge plot.
His family had been killed by the cartel, blah, blah, blah.
So those loops of those patterns of firmly reestablished in this film they kidnapped the daughter.
They take it back to the U. S. They then fake,
for her benefit the idea of the DEA rescuing her from having been kidnapped from the cartel so that when she gets returned to her father, allegedly she'll back up their storey that it was the other cartel that's doing it.
So far, so good. They drive back across the border to return her to her father,
and suddenly they find themselves under attack by their Mexican police escort as well as by other cartel members.
Coming on your right. See anything?
This is where I had my first major character issue and partly is because I had no idea who the fuck the people attacking them were working for and what they wanted. Do you have any theories?
Just assuring the implication was the mixing with police where corrupt.
Yes, but I'm working for the cartel. I assumed my assumption was they were working for the father of this girl, Teo, Get her back even though they were driving to make an exchange.
Then that mean? But that implies that the father already note knew that thie Americans had them,
and therefore the idea of having him turn against the other cartels have worked unless than it's one of the other cartels like this is the stuff that then explain, elicits like cartel B who learns that the,
yeah.
I'm kind of all right being lost at this point because the characters are lost.
Okay? Where I have issue is that in this shoot out, the girl runs away is about She runs over a hill and flag down a car, wanting to.
She's run away from the DEA on from the cops. She's run away from the shootout.
She flagged down a car, and it happens to be a car from one of the surviving members of the shootout on the Mexican side.
He's a bloodied man. He gets out of the car. She sees him.
He sees her, recognises her, he goes to grab her and put her in the car.
The decision I don't buy at this point is why that those two people don't have a conversation.
I don't understand why she doesn't say, Who are you working for?
And he says, Your father, not your father, Whatever. I don't understand why she runs away from that blooded man. I mean, she's a Jesus.
She's a young, precocious teenager.
Let's just say she doesn't. She wants to run away from a bloodied man who was just involved in a shoot house around her.
Okay, then Alejandro shoots that guy at a distance and rescued her, and she decides to go with Alejandra without that decision being debated either.
So I don't understand why she doesn't trust the Mexican guy. I don't understand why she suddenly trust Alejandro because none of this is debated.
They then get into their own little homesteader bit.
Where the hundred talks to. Matt Graver finds out that the CIA is burning him.
One way to cut ties.
And then Alejandro decides to take this girl back to the US in some way to protect her.
Okay, I have no fucking clue why Alejandro wants to protect the daughter ofthe a cartel leader.
When that was the very thing kidnapping her was what got him on board with the mission and the previous character loop that's been established is that he happily murders the children of cartel leaders.
In on it. Yeah.
They're trying to turn are the hundreds character and Matt Grevers character in this film.
But I don't buy the turn because none of it is a debated or contextualised or told me why this is different to the last time.
It's hard because it's like he's got a confident and this is the difficulty. A lot with going to motivations is access to characters.
So I find the idea that maybe he's keeping Isabel alive because that's only gives our Sandro access.
He gives him leverage both CIA, but also with the cartels any so either the guy that he wants to kill or whatever.
So I I actually kind of, except that he might be like, Okay, WeII.
We both played the game of Thrones board game that was based on cosmic encounter.
And there's this mechanic with holding hostages right, and you threatened to kill them.
What's clever about it is you threatened to kill a man. People made capitulate the hostage.
But once they killed, actually, no abnormal leverage you Actually, the act of the killing is the moment. That is also a moment when you lose power.
So sometimes you call people on their bluff because if you don't need them on a functional level, you actually have power ways like, well, I'm going to kill them and say, Well, can you kill them now? You've got.
Okay, so I buy the decision that Alejandro tracks down the girl to take possession of her because that's still part of the mission at that point.
And he's a consultant to the CIA, and he may need leverage against the But then he no longer he doesn't use her as leverage against the CIA.
When she could, both of them could turn around and go. The CIA capped this, you know, Captured is kidnapped his daughter in order to start like that's actually like worth something.
You know them because in fact, the CIA, the reason they want to burn him is that they want to make sure that there's no loose ends.
You're right that they can't be implicated because effectively, the millet that they see it the Special Activities Division has has,
done a military operation in foreign and borders without commission borders and the idea of like, what is legal military operations.
Always lot makes me laugh.
Both of us have studied what you are a lawyer and I start when I did, international water was like e.
Ultimately it's like you justify.
It's about power. If you khun get away with something, you'LL do it.
And if part of getting away with something that achieves your political aims militarily is by appealing to international law, you will do it. But if If ignoring international or achieves the same saying names. You will do it.
People, countries do not ethical. They're like corporations. They're psychopaths, right?
Yep. Anyway.
You know? Think Anyway, the point is like he would have had power in terms of if he could have whipped up like press frenzy.
I think he could have used the girl as leverage like I buy. That's why I mean, I buy because I never know why he's keeping her, maybe idea that he may be just doing it because she's a girl of around the same age, which the film calls out.
And so I think you're possibly legitimate in thinking it, that that's all they're trying to say. Oh, you're about the same age as my daughter before she was killed by the cartel.
But I think it just keeps gives him more motivation for holding on to her as some assets.
Hopefully, my summary shows that I think a lot of the decisions,
you can come up with some explanation for them until the decision where he goes, I've been burnt and I'm going to bring this girl back because that's the best way to guarantee her safety.
He starts acting out of her safety rather than his own self interest on DH.
Yeah, he basically turns road to keep her alive.
Yep. So I don't buy that decision. But interestingly, I might have bought that decision had it not come on the back of a whole lot of decisions Where, as I've just talked them through In summary, I confined motivations for them.
But I have to engage in an emotional excise like I'm not in the film because I'm sitting back going.
Why is he doing that? Why are they doing that? What is happening here So suddenly you've got all these very quick back to back moments and character decisions where I'm not clear on the motivations of any of them.
And finally I get to one where I'm like No, I'm fucking out And they do have a He's digging a hole.
I can remember ways digging a hole, but they have a It's a beautifully written scene.
You're the attorney host family.
My father.
To send a message.
Hunt them.
So you want.
I will always be a message,
only now message is different.
But I think it's the writer and director thinking This scene is beautifully written scene and we'LL play The accept is enough.
Teo, get us over this moment and it's just not enough. It was not enough for May to believe that he.
Actually, I'll take about that he would willingly tried to get her over the border to make her safe as opposed to Oh, I'm going to get over the border in getting to talk to the US like the press, you know?
And that that is the irony as much as I'm left leaning like he could absolutely get them into the Atlantic or something.
And go, We're going toe, Mother Jones, We're going to have an expose about how the CIA conducted this Leo operation in Mexican territory. You can see that would absolutely give him revenge against the CIA.
Because he knows he's bone. He wants revenge. I don't think he's concerned her that senator her safety at that point. So, you know, I take I.
I don't I don't feel like he wants revenge against the CIA. I think feel like he has thiss understanding because they operate, you know, kind of outside of official missions that he just understands that this is the way it goes.
What I don't buy is that once he knows he's burnt, that he just doesn't walk away and leave the girl or shooter in the head.
We all users urine in different. That's what I mean, like uses her against the other cartels like there's so much.
Yeah, none of that decision really does make sense. Now let's say this is what the writer wants to do.
He wants toe, turn the audience, give the audience insight into Alejandra and turn the audiences understanding off him away from the character pattern and character loop off.
Revenge psychopath to someone who's still got some humanity left in him.
It's a redemption arc. In that sense, then one easy thing that I would have potentially considered doing is the moment when she goes over the hill and she flags down the car and sees that it's this,
a man of violence who she wants to run away from.
I'd have actually played out that scene in the distance from Alejandro's point of view, where he's just sitting there watching this happen. Considering his options.
Do I let this man take this girl or do I intervene and stop him?
And that would have obviously taken away from the tension of that moment because she's, you know, being kidnapped and carried away like it's a very visceral the cameras, very close.
So you're trading off against the moment by moment, intensity for character.
But what that would have given us is at least you know, we spoke about in part one of thiss character motivations episode.
The debate could be internal. If we see a character debating, then we buy that they whatever decision they make it that point, we just have to accept that that's what they make, because we've seen them debate it.
So every seam debate, I could let this girl go.
But there's something in me that makes me want to rescue her.
And ultimately, it could just be because, you know, one of the things that in the first one when he murdered the cartels, leaders, children, they were both boys my correct in remembering that.
Yeah. Yes, it feels like.
And he could have. He could have potentially been okay with murdering boys, but not with murdering girls.
Yeah, or she said something, or I think he could on you give Isabel a save the cat moment.
So, in fact, the film got out of the way to show that she's kind of entitled and a bit of a brat. She picks a fight at school, and she feels protected.
But is she has a moment of compassion with Thie. Is he blind in the homestead sequence?
His death, isn't he?
Yeah, And then we learned that handwara can.
Alejandro's daughter was deaf.
He consign. If if she's got a moment of genuine compassion towards this man, he might go.
Maybe there's hope she is not. She is not going to become like her father, right?
And I guess you could say whether it's, you know, the drug cartels is super patriarchal and guess maybe that is true.
But there's no doubt that she is a enable our off that she knows who her dad is.
I think I would have bought that, like just enough a moment where he's like,
Maybe I'm wrong as opposed to thie your same age as my daughter and I am becoming like because it's dependent on demanding a moment of self reflection to go.
I am becoming like the people that I hate, right they because he's a lawyer before he becomes like a super assassin, he before he's a super assess and he's a lawyer, right? Like that's why they part target him.
Well.
He's a lawyer going off the cartels just so make an example for you and they kill his family.
All right, that's the back storey. And then he somehow very miraculously develops his incredible, like super assessing powers.
Okay, I'LL buy that that he's got nothing else to do in his life but, like, become bad as right.
And but he still wants. The cartel's always wanted the cartels, but there needs to be that moment to show that he's capable of coming back from where he's been on.
I have a moment where he has a moment of self reflection saying, Yeah, okay, this is escalation. This is what escalation looks like, you know, maybe we need to de escalate and thereby saving her, which is actually a better one.
But I don't think I would have bought that. We've seen his character loop where he is so consumed. He is so broken that he murders children.
Okay, so he's okay. We're doing workshop a Rather and try to keep it within that thing of what they're really trying to do is put the Josh Brolin character and the Benin show dilatory character.
Adults. They're meant to turn these people that.
Are that Mac rather hungry? Oh, who Who are you? As much as he can friends in his world, friend.
Yeah, but is that what they're trying to do? Because they never they never have a moment of conflict between them.
Not in terms ofthe turning against them in terms of.
Can't risk or falling into the wrong hands. When the beacons activated, your team takes them. You understand? Clean the scene.
When I say clean, gentlemen, I mean spotless. Your operative included. Do you know how hard he was?
I could throw a stick across the river and hit fifty grieving fathers. Make another one.
D'Oh. Well, look who doesn't have the stomach for it. Now. Who are you to question me after all the shit that I've eaten for you?
You know it's gonna be cold about it and get a sense of, like, kind of maybe that kind of his friends, his friends, Khun B. In this world, I buy that Brolin's and interested, but that's what the plot wise the film is trying to get them. Tio.
So Matt Graver is sent in a hell of a couple couple of black shorts over the border to put the girl down because they've got a GPS tracker and kill Alejandro if he's there.
And so they're trying to put them in longhand. So what happens if our hundred kills the girl? They're not going to know that she's dead.
They're still going to the GPS like, Okay, she's still there. That's a pre confronting moved from that gravy to come in and go handle Kilgo Wakata hunting down now, right?
And in fact, they film goes out of its way. Not put,
Mac Raver in that position because one hundred gallon air Alejandra is killed or seemingly killed by a gay member that's involved in human trafficking map the whole B plot that's more or less just to set up.
So Alejandro is killed by this young seemingly killed by this young kid, right?
So Macready doesn't have to do it. Matt Graver thinks he's dead, and then Maghrabi just have to get after go of the girl.
The reason is I think these air related. My issue is when Matt Gravy decides to take the girl in Peru with this protection rather than kill her on behalf of the CIA.
What do you do? It?
Go into witness protection.
So he's going as his training and saying, as much as I am happy, use drone strikes against a terrorist family of fifteen year old girls.
Too much borderline. It's relying on kind of like audience ethics rather than character ethics, because there's probably, I think, the terrorist claims that there's family is probably family and those buildings that he blows up.
The differences may be its first hand, as opposed to a drone. There's a big difference between heating space bar toe, wipe out a family and having to pull the trigger yourself and maybe greater finds himself.
He's got the gun on her and he's like, No, I can't do it. Let's take a right. That's a step too far. I'd buy that, but he makes a calculated decision because he feels that he's, Bean asked, turning us his friend.
That's my interpretation of it again. So if I'm tasked with solving this, it's very hard because the third act,
they're trying to set up a third film, which is that Gil Hondros still alive and he's decided he's got into the CIA, tried to kill him.
That's my interpretation of it right on, let's call, But it feels like they've kind of do done convoluted back backflips to make us feel like we're both better people than they are, which is that they're there,
like or they're psychopaths are employed by the government of Syrian serial killers to take credit cards, right?
Teo? Quite suicide.
While I was not listening to you talk about Matt. Gravest decision.
I figured out how I would fix the other hundred decision joining him. My pitch.
I will listen to as much as you listen to me talking about graver.
Draft-zero are podcast about how to be passive aggressive.
There's nothing passive passive about this.
I would have assumed. As Alejandro learns that he's been burnt, he goes, Yep.
Okay, he pulls the gun on the girl and is about to shoot her.
The father, that deaf man, deaf homesteader, comes in and witnesses it.
And Alan, hundred kind of has to justify why he's about to shoot a little girl and ultimately can't and then realising that he's been burned by the CIA and can't kill this girl and that she's unsafe, that he has to take it to the border.
And that would create a really interesting kind of dynamic between her and the girl.
Because she's he's kind of her best option out of here, but that doesn't mean he's trustworthy.
No, I think I think they should play into that. That's that's how we do. It is. You don't I think so. It can be kept in his dark for his motivations, to keep her alive.
But the fact is, her alive is a lot more useful to him than her debt.
And he seems like someone who wants tohave options beyond like he's lived beyond.
I have sought revenge and killed the person that killed my family.
It's like Well, in that case, wanna bring the cartel down and her alive is more useful to me.
But we haven't, but we haven't seen that. Like that is absolutely what's happened. But I haven't seen him be calculated.
Here's the scenario. He's the assassin.
Yeah, exactly. I haven't seen him. Have planning agent.
Correo Cario, Judas Iscariot. Just just to point out, this is the animal.
Very good. So now that we've pitched fixing Alejandro, let's pick fixing Matt. Gravest decision. Which is why does he save the girl?
Well, he. The problem is, it's not like he's like, I'm gonna put her in witness protection because it's like a bit of a fuck you to the CIA in.
But it's not really It's not like she's going to go out of the way there. Like Dobbin the CIA Mohr dubbing in would be, I'm going to go to the press, right?
Why does she even want to go? How'd you keep someone in witness protection? Who would just wants to go home to Mexico, to her powerful father.
Dick us. It is ridiculous. I don't know. I'm dark man. He should have shot up.
That's my solution to the hand, which is, except two years like the next film should be like I'm on a hundred side. Like Matt Grave is a piece of shit.
Like, let's be clear, this CIA special activities division are not, eh?
Institutional, which whom we need to ethically defend who have a known for their kind of like morally upstanding attitude. Teo Warfare, right?
Better be. It's fascinating that the point you made earlier about the space bar, maybe they should have leaned into that.
That he couldn't do it, he couldn't pull the trigger.
They could. They could have had a line that he couldn't do it. And he's the guy.
I think there's even a line. Whether got the subordinate is asking him like, Why you doing this or what are we going to do with her or something like that?
And he's like, It's different to pushing a space bar or something like that, like some call back to the beginning of the film so that it gives us an insight into the character that this guy can play war games and be cold and calculating, but he can't do it up front and personal.
Because it's also it's that whole thing. We think it's like that she's fifteen. You wanted killer and like what? She was sixteen, not seventeen.
Maybe. How do you know she's seventeen and like fifteen? Like, how do you make that stuff judgement?
I know I'm not someone who's ever pulled a gun on anyone yet alone on a child, but, you know, and okay, she's not a threat.
But you don't go into CIA, especially they've gone out of the way. What is it that made his Luke change?
Essentially trying to say he's digging my grave is beginning to question the ethics of what he's done.
Okay, that's really what they're trying to go into is beginning to question that because they want him to kill our one hundred.
Maybe, but then why safe to go? Like like surely it's better to be a wolf in sheep's clothing and to be like I know no longer trust the CEO.
But I've done what they've done or go all the way.
I mean, maybe this is the problem, because they're going to do a sequel, and we're going to find out what happens to her once he's back in U. S territory, you know, because the thing is, if it's witness protection that I'm assuming it's none of the CIA.
Because the whole point of the first film was the CIA.
Do the air not allowed to operate within U. S. Territory without an attached domestic agency? Right. And there's also the anti success aunty sedition laws in the US, which have actually read Do you know another project?
Some of them, that may be the hand them over to the fbi and then after got FBI could be like, Okay, we're gonna actually lay legal action against there.
What's the name? Character? That Not math. Catherine Keener. Right.
You know, we're gonna go after her for doing something that was an illegal operation, and they're gonna lead heads roll.
That's cool. I would have wanted to see, actually see some of that e I don't need.
Teo necessarily sees decisions in the moment. But if I saw some of the consequences that I might understand his decision in retrospect, So maybe a prologue where she's handed over to the FBI and they like going to go out to Katherine Keane.
It would be like, Okay, that's what he's after that would have actually done it for May in the same, but instead they've made the prologue abducts or the epilogue.
And that's what I said about a pro Look. They should have an epilogue where that's what's happened.
Have Anabel log where Alejandro, and he tries to recruit him as an assessment.
And the boy who shoots him.
And that's okay. It's trying to like do do do, but it's actually in terms of character motivation.
If we don't understand in the moment that we need to see the consequences and go, that's what he's doing. That's really smart because her in witness protection programme with an FBI person suddenly gives Mac rebel leverage over Catherine Keener.
He's been his like her superior and something that puts him in an interesting political power within the CIA.
If they don't know where she is and it's a bomb that could go off seemed like okay, that's what he's done like he's pissed off with CIA, but he doesn't care about the girl.
But it's really hard Teo debate that in the moment in the context of what they doing that would require the addition of an extra scene.
But this should be extra fucking scene.
Yeah, okay, sure. But what I find interesting is that in us in our pictures for fixing this movie,
that too different tools I feel we've wanted Teo explore most is one is debating the decision because in both of them they make the decision and we don't buy, and there's very little,
discussion about it on DH.
The other thing that we're missing is understanding the motivation of why they break their loops because they are fundamentally breaking.
They're pre established character loops.
So if they're going to break wth, um, do, should they have ceded? Should they have said the pattern or seating in the beginning of this film, this sequel that the pans that they'd established in the earlier film are cracking?
Well, for example, Matt Graver did space by on the brother of the terrorists. And he could be like the brothers families. Then he's like, No, they're not.
You're lying to me. He was tryingto presses space Bar gets a report.
They found three bodies, and he's just like like, you could see a moment where he's like, Okay, that's the price you get that moment of like, had he been in that moment and you, maybe he wouldn't have hit the space bar.
Right? So we get a sense that there's a line there.
Maybe, but we never know because it's kind of moral testing and listen to the podcast has talked about that before that you know, we can all talk about our morality as I want, but until we're in the situation into that mole,
that morality is tested in fire.
We never truly know what we think, and he will never know. He's like, Well, I'm not the person to kill a kid, And the answer is he needs to prove it. Or he pretends the CIA.
It wouldn't have mattered. And you could see Catherine Keener doing that.
By the way, do you know that We actually found the body of three fifteen year olds at this compound, but you bombed would have used to oppress the bun. And he hesitates. A moment goes, yes, but we go.
We as an audience going e think he wouldn't have. Then that would have paid off.
It's like the opposite of Chekhov's gun. It's like Chekhov's Not Gun.
Well, another moment. Another moment of character patterning is in that meeting that he has early on where he gets lays down his plan to kidnap the girl and and except the cartels against each other.
To be clear. You want to see this thing through? I'm gonna have to get dirty.
Dirty is exactly why you're here.
He is quite confrontational to them, like he knows that they need him and his way.
His input, and so he doesn't is not deferential. He's not very respectful.
In that moment, he could just ask them like he could debate like, What's the point of it all?
You know, just we don't we don't need to be is on the nose is what you and I debating right now.
But what we hope I hope we're getting to is just a nen dick ation of how seeding these cracks early on in the film would have allowed us later in the film to buy that the loop gets broken or that a new loop gets established.
Because there's a crack, we're showing that there's weakness. Yeah, that's kind of like a tool its own way. It's not showing that the loop is changing. Whether there is some kind of like official line, you know, you can chip away at it.
On. I do wish I'd said this at the beginning of the podcast. Who?
Maybe you can move it.
I think there's a massive difference between a character decision that you don't buy in the moment as you're watching the film on a character decision that you don't buy after having watched the whole film.
Doing the refrigerator lodge.
Yeah, because one is something that's broken and the other is undoubtedly a compromise. Does that make sense?
Yeah, some of it also is the genre stuff, like, I think they're leaving into this idea that Macri's there is a genre of like hardened killers who soften around children and decide they don't want children.
Mads, like tripe, right? And I think that leading in that that maybe in the moment gets you over to the bump on. I've certainly got an example off getting on the bump, potentially in the moment in Prometheus, which I want to move on to net.
Well, yeah, I would like to move on. It was it was thinking about Prometheus that actually made that point because the biggest issue I have in Prometheus is not an issue I had in the moment, but actually in watching the whole film.
And there's a big difference in In the Bedroom, every single moment that happens in the bedroom I buy in the moment where I have issue is thinking about the whole film and other character motivations at the end of the film.
Having watched and experience the whole thing on DH, I think these issues that you and I having with Sir Cario to and really all of the films like Solo Logan and now we're going into Prometheus,
the biggest issues that you have of the ones where you go.
I don't buy that as you're watching the movie.
Yeah. And then when? On further reflection, You like that. Still done.
Have you thought of an example? I suppose there have been examples where I kind of get it, and I'm saying that we continued the war. Now we're seeing a lot of thinking to go.
I can't get that. They've bean held ransom or held hostage by BAE Scholar, which but what I'm like, Do they do they actually understand that's the case?
Like I'm now understand their motivation.
I feel that they let her off the hook by Captain America taking the fall for that decision.
Yeah, and but I don't think they're trying to show that Captain America is like white nine ing her.
Maybe that's could be the new like version of Captain America is just like the White Knight.
He's just like a superhero that, just like White Knights, everyone still played by Chris Evans because I think you did, he'd be up for that. That's That's my pitch for Senator SNL skit.
My favourite. My favourite thing that I read today on the Internet was a guardian article about photographer taking a whole lot of pictures of all vers.
And it was about like getting to know your volver on. A guy said It's not a Volver, it's a vagina.
And the comments that followed the guy mansplaining to women what the name for their genitalia was was just gold.
They just takes himself into more of a hog's. It's like I'm talking about be kind of a common understanding. It's like, No, you were like you started off doing like the precise toe.
Yeah.
He was trying to tell women What? The common understanding of the name of their own body parts. Oh, my God. So brilliant.
Anyhow, Prometheus.
It's reading lifeform. What,
changes? Changing into what.
They're leaving Go! I was so wrong. Take a look.
So I know that I've got one decision in Prometheus that I wantto discuss with you. But do you have main ones as well?
I think this is the ear bowl. Okay, so there's this kind of two examples I want to talk about.
There's the I don't think it's a new year full example, and I kind of by it, which is when David chooses to poison haul away with the black.
That's that's my issue, but, yes, carry on.
Right and really having rewatched it for the first time in cinemas. So I was like, didn't kind of like I was. I was like, I want to know why he did that But I wasn't like there's no reason for him to do that when there is a difference.
And then the other differences Thie geologist. They're related.
There's a whole basically, it's to be plot the geologist in the biologist from when they went away from the main group two.
When they get lost toe when the snake creature in the attack formation is like at the biologist who's run away from being too scared is like, Hey, could you get you give them, like, Pat you Not that far, but it's just like.
That to me, is idiot ball because essentially, it's the horror movie troop of these people getting lost in the haunted house.
And so I actually went back and reread, went to the John Spades draught, a one to understand where these problems may have gone from come from, So I'm sure if the Prometheus script is out there, but I know someone probably.
John leaked the non Daniel Linda Law draft zero is that hole and the Wayland whale.
And you know what's his name, Guy Pearce, and make up turning up in the end of the film was being old.
That's to do with character motivation. And that's what Damian Linda off Lindell off.
He'd changed the overall drive of the film in his drive from essentially in John spacecraft. It's about them wanting terra, forming technology for the engineers and stolen like Where did we come from? It's like we're going to steal their technology.
And it's about that. The hubris of man like a very science fiction idea.
We're going to steal, quite literally, the fire from the gods winner steal the terror forming technology from the engineers, and that leads to us becoming undone. Whereas in previous it's obviously a lot more about I want to learn how to live forever.
I meet my maker.
Should I summarise the film before we get to these two different particular decisions from memory?
It is. Prometheus is the prequel Toe Aliens Alien Sorry, Ridley Scott returning to the franchise famously on DH.
It is set in the world where they they're going to,
a far off planet where, unlike the other alien and Aliens films, this is a scientific research mission on DH.
The scientific team led by New Me replaces character Elizabeth Shaw.
She has uncovered ancient prehistoric drawings that are she's interpreted as a map across the stars as to how we confined our makers.
And off they go Now they've been in hype, hype asleep, whatever it's called on the trip, the only person that's been awake,
is the android called David, played by Michael Fassbender on DH.
In their initial explorations off the alien ship, they uncover several things.
One is the Is it the space jockey from Alien.
No, I think because it's not the same ship.
What we do see is them uncover. There's like the flash like this. We'd like pixelated visions of the space jockey. So in that way, yes, they don't hear, they see the space jockeys.
Okay, so they find ahead of one of these engineer people.
But one of the other things that they find is a vial of black goo.
Which we've seen in the opening, which we've seen in the Cold Open.
Yes, off an engineer who's like a sort of proto human type alien.
He drinks it, and by drinking it dissolves himself. So he essentially commit suicide to spark life and evolution on a strange planet, which is Earth, isn't it? Or is that the idea?
That's the That's the implication because of their dissolve.
Let's not live because the thing is the planets already got plant life on it. This's one of those things that frustrating about the film When you look at it in hindsight, they've kicked out life. No, they're kickstart an animal life.
Anyhoo, David is analysing the goof, and he puts the goo a droplet of it on his finger.
On DH Holloway, which is sures.
Another research scientists but happens to be sures. Husband David has got a drop of the black goo on his finger hovering over a drink that he's about to offer toe Holloway.
I think we wasted our time coming here, don't you? Your question depends on me understanding what you hope to achieve by coming here. What we hoped to achieve was to meet our makers. Get answers. Why they?
Why they even made us in the first place.
Why do you think your people made me? Maybe because we could.
Can you imagine how disappointing it would be for you to hear the same thing from your creator?
I guess it's a good thing you can't be disappointed. Yes, it's wonderful, actually. May I ask you something?
Please. D'Oh, How far would you go to get what you came all this way for? You're on.
What would you be willing to do? Anything? Enough,
drinking?
And ultimately, after having that conversation, David dips his finger into the drink that's poisoning the drink with the black goo and hands it over to Holloway. Holloway drinks it.
My I've seen it both in cinema and on Blue Ray back at home.
So I think I've only seen it twice, and I remember distinctly feeling when I first saw that is, I don't understand why David has done that, but I fully had confidence in the filmmakers.
That's some at some point later in the film, they would explain to me why David had done that on my issue with the film is that at no point in the future does it ever explain?
Nor even in Alien Covenant, the sequel to Prometheus does ever explain why the fuck David poisons Holloway.
Well, I think just double down in alien covered because he works at an entire planet.
Why would it further like Ultimately, this comes down to character motivation. I don't understand what character David's character motivation is. At this point.
I don't understand why, no matter what his want is whether it's to find out what the black goo does, whether it's too,
you know, find their fountain of youth for Weyland, whether it's to spark new life, whatever it is poisoning the lead scientist on your researcher, why didn't he poison,
anyone else on the ship?
It is the lead. Okay, so the context they've say set up for this having wash it.
You've watched them much more recently than me.
So for me, I definitely of the same thing with the car. Why is he doing this in the first time around?
Second tyre and having seen Alien Covenant where clearly David's a psychopath who wants to wipe out humanity.
I now re watch this with, like, you're definitely hearing our David a lot and the fact that he makes reference to the fact that you know, he's only looks humans. It makes humans feel more comfortable.
So it definitely feels to me it's a decision that makes more sense in the context of Alien Covenant.
Is that fair of us to assess a film after having seen it see?
No. So I'm gonna point out more specifically what they do in the moment, which is just too before, Like, it's basically a run of a scene,
where he is speaking to someone who we do not know who he is through that hollow interface so he can speak to them in hyper sleep.
Take care.
And then Vickers kinds of interrogates about what he's asking.
And then he talks to Holloway and is like, What would you be prepared to do to find out the answers? And he's like anything.
There's like, Ok, and then he poisons him.
So I think it's trying to create a gaol of events. I'm not saying it's effective, but as writers, they're trying to create this idea that you like.
Okay, he's a robot, different sense of more tower morality, mortality.
But that, too, where he is prepared to just basically do unauthorised experiment,
to see what happens in order to do the billing beating of whatever we now have one is there's another presence on the ship that is pulling his strings.
That's what I think is meant to get you over in the moment that he is doing in the moment in order to make what is revealed to be Weyland happy, right? That's what I think, what they've tried to do.
I'm just not obviously ineffective.
I get that. And And it bumped me in the moment, obviously ineffective.
Here's my very kneejerk pitch to making that better is that he does the experiment on anyone else other than the lead fucking scientist on the expedition.
He's not. The lead scientist is a scientist. What what specific skills does? Holup, I would say. Sure is the lead scientist. What does what skills to his hallway give other than speeches?
All right.
What is Holloway do?
I would have done it on a mechanic or or Idris Elba, the captain of the ship, you know.
All of them. It's a far more important to the running of the ship that Holloway Holloway actually seems the one who's the most expendable.
Well, then, if that's the case again, you've seen it more recently that if that's the case, that would have sold it for me if David has, actually, if the question wasn't about what are you prepared to do?
But it was actually David assessing who is the least effective person on the ship or the least necessary person on this ship.
If that's what the conversation was about, that would have been fascinate because, as you said, the audience has already clued in that David's up to something.
What What pisses me off at the end of the film is that doesn't serve any of his nefarious Wayland purposes. And, as you say in the context of Alien Covenant is because he's a fucking nutbag.
So fine. But we don't know that in the context of this film in this film, his decision is never justified.
But I would have atleast been happy to know.
Yep, he's conducting on experiment, and it would have been in line, you know, talking about genre conventions. You know, the android in these films is always the the.
Except Bishop in aliens. Aliens is thie subversion of it, which is why they do it.
Yeah, that's true. But they're always thie emotionless.
You distrust them because they were not human and B because they are programmed by people who don't also care about humans.
So David is fully living into that trope.
Right? So I would have bought that here. Experimented on someone. I guess I needed to know why he chose Pol away.
It could be like he said something like, Well, I've got someone in mind like they could be Just end that little bit more of the conversation to feel like,
I've got someone I think I've got some one that's expendable because I think Holloway's expendable sure is the one that's not shown be extremely competent. Holloway just gets drunk.
It feels like he's a terrorist, right? Like it feels like he's there because he's sure his partner, the reason I brought up John's draught is that seem that David is not in it.
So is Holloway. Is there even a point toe Holloway's character then?
Holloway is actually a little bit more competent, so it feels like they've split in the original Draught Holloway.
And sure things were added to everything in this film like she operates on the alien head. And I'm like, Hey, Mom, what's a research issue? An archaeologist like, Why is she already on this head?
Is she a doctor? I mean, she's not geologist and she's dealing with, like, a biological sample. That's fine.
But it felt like it was not. As you say. I don't think there's any point.
Let's move on to the second one because I feel that.
The film that actually made so essentially. What happens is this's a classic idiot ball example and the peoples on TV troops? No.
So there's two characters who we meet early, one who's a geologist or one who's a biologist.
And they are called FEA Fields, paid by Sean Harris from the Mission Holmes on others, that's probably almost knowing From and race pal who pays Milburn.
Sophie Fields, a geologist, is bit tattooed. A lot of attitude here for the money, but he's a scientist, and then Milburn's like he's kind of expiring partner, like it's like a buddy cop comedy.
They're trying to replace the Truckee guys from Alien.
She's and we're here because of a map you two kids found in a cave. All right.
No, not a map. An invitation.
We call them engineers, Engineers, your mind, engineer.
They engineered us.
Bullshit.
Okay. So do you have anything to back that up? I mean, look, if you're willing to discount three centuries of Darwinism, that's.
So they go down with the main crew for field releases, thes kind of what he calls his pups, which are little drones that matter the structure.
And Milburn's like a zeno biologist And when May and as David who discovers this, they basically have CCTV footage, plays back in the space.
But whatever it helps with the exposition looks call on its alien.
So I guess you don't like I don't fully understand why they do this, but plays back. The idea that the space jockey things, what we learn in the space jockeys are being pursued are running away from something.
Go high up. They are? Yeah. That's what they were running from. Something Don't touch. Okay, This thing is opened up from the inside.
Look, it's exploded, Some calls preening.
And they get spooked. Fulfilled and Melbourne get smoked like were out here.
Stuff happens. The whole crew get back to the ship Prometheus. Because in sci fi, you always name your ship after something that bad happens, too.
Why does like it's like any. All were on the spaceship tight tank that's not foreboding at all, or the Mary Celeste.
They go to their ship and then realise that the geologist and a biologist armed with them and they call them and their turns out they're lost.
We've been here before, Fifield.
And then they get told that their drone has found signs of Life's west, and that leads them to bunker down in the weeds ceremony a room with the urns with the black.
Do the very same room that FEA field and Milburn left because they were scared, right?
Have decided to kind of like put on space, blankets and sleep. The nineteen that's the third strike.
And then there's this, like swimming creature. What I realised in the second watch is the worms they keep on cutting to have been infected by the grey goo by the black fuel and have kind of evolved into a larger worm very rapid.
Okay. Stay quiet. This's OK. I can handle this.
It ends up kind of like coming out of the water and raising itself at the biologist who was the one.
It's like, I want to get out of here because I'm shit scared and this creature that kind of goes into the sick tax dance.
Wait.
You, baby.
You need to stay calm because she is beautiful. Hell make you think that?
That we recognise his threatening Looks like a fucking cobra. The biologist is like I was harmless.
Come here.
Okay?
You're wrong.
Four strike until it attacks, and it's just like how they diddle these decisions in order to get in a situation where they can get attacked.
Death. What I buy is rape spools, character being the stop, freaking out about everything.
And so this is the patterning and the loop that they've established and also that he's excited by discovering alien life.
I can buy both those things. What I don't buy is exactly what you've just said is the coochie coochie coo moment.
Because no, no self respecting scientist discussing Lord discovering alien life would fucking cuddle it.
Well, there will. The other aspect to it is that they all take off their fucking helmets, which is a ll the characters because one of them, like Holloway, causes dig was like, It's breathable air. I'm taking on what it's like.
That.
Cool it. Maybe oxygen. You know nothing about contingents is human.
History taught you nothing like your fucking idiots.
They're not even that level of debt in alien, like all you're doing is making your crew and they repeat the same problem in alien government on double down to it.
Because the contagions airborne like my God, you are Lenny and characters be stupid.
When when they are supposed to be the smartest of characters in this kind of situation.
Holloway could have left it off in the hours of like, I'm not taking it off because you might get infected with something and they end up putting him in quarantine because Holloway does get infected with something.
But it's like, what a serious bunch of dumb asses like Hence idiot ball, right?
Like I can't the rage, this fields, you know what made Alien amazing was because they felt like the characters were behaving like actual people would in that situation with caution.
Yeah. I mean, you hit the nail on the head. What made that work in Alien is Ripley is in that first sequence is the bitch.
She's Vigurs.
You know, people forget that in Alien.
When it came out, people didn't know that Sigourney Weaver was going to be the final girl or the lead.
And she certainly isn't set up that way at the front end of the movie. She is the bitch that is not letting them back onto the ship.
And because the audience is on site of every other character, like rescue those motherfuckers, they're okay with her caution being override it.
But there's no character being the voice of reason here. There's no debating off the decisions being made here.
All right. So you've got a fundamental bunch of problems. Is Thies too? Got guys bugged off? They've clearly got this pup technology, right?
It's like, Why don't they have the map? Why they lost? Why did the ship on an alien planet that has been as a,
into solar system vessel not have some way to kind of keep GPS tracking on these people like it's too serious of seriously, stupid shit.
All so we can get the first kill of Melbourne and then Sean Harris's Fairfield turning up with all that are like the toxic monster from the end of Robocop. Right?
So I went back. I'm like, Seriously, I can't believe is like, this is just this is really idiot, But I'm sorry, Easy.
I don't want to trash movies, but this is a serious off, like we're watching it going on. Everyone's saying they're going what? They're only doing this so they can have.
So this is a clear example off plot, overriding character motivation.
The storey needed the plot to get to a certain point, so they have override ID what we would buy from the characters in that situation carry on.
So I was curious. About what? John Space. So there is a scene.
There is a beat. They run off like they have them over. Like I'm fucking out here that I am out here, too, right? That's so they track the ship slightly scared.
We come back to them there. It's something they call it like Central New York, Central Junction or something. They call out the fact that it's super confusing because there's just tunnels everywhere and like feel Field was like Milburn.
Get out the mapping module and Milburn's like, I know the Mapple modules and you have the mapping module and there lay off fuck like base, like they're calling out the fact that they've stormed off,
and don't know and got themselves lost their truck to Tante, and I'm okay with that,
and they still find themselves back in that room.
Where the creatures are in this case is described was a centrepiece rather than a worm.
The worm doesn't look as immediately hostile. It's a centre peed, and he come like he's looking at it and it basically approaches him.
And he's not like he's like, Okay, let's not spook it. There's no mouth nothing threatening That climbs onto him.
And the big print specifically calls out that he does not notice the development when the creature produces them out.
So it's not swaying like a co spitting cobra in front of them gain.
No, and he actually they He actually makes a comment like This's bug proof this space, Who is going to protect us?
And so he's looking at it. And so it's more like that, you know, nursing an animal in the wild. If we don't spook the animal, the animal once because interested, but detached enough.
And then when the animal reveals its teeth, there's a beat when it turns around and he's like, Get it off me Like he suddenly realised that he's got himself in a bad situation and that's when by trying to get up to in attacks,
and I buy that in the context of the page so much more because it's like I get that they went off with established that they're scared, too.
We see them like because of that. They've made a bad decision to not bringing the mapping module and gets future sci fi. But I kind of okay, you know, they need a mapping module because there's no there's no satellites, toe have GPS, so you know.
Science.
Science. But you know, that's how GPS works of satellites in space.
So you know there's no satellites around this planet, but there's no like radio beacons or whatever, or that they don't have access to it, that they basically they have screwed up and they make it guess.
But they know they screwed up, and they have a similar billion primitives. Like I think we're lost. It's like, How did you get yourselves lost?
Surely from what I've seen, you'd have just walked back down that town in the script them in a very specific moment of how they found themselves in a confusing spot.
And third, I just completely by the motivation for howling interacts with that creature. Because in Prometheus there's no reason for him to be coochie coochie coo.
The copper could have still attacked him. He could be like It's nothing and then it gets in Texas and he's like, Okay, I'm going to take a step back and then it just lunges at him.
It would have served exactly the same.
All they're doing is basically saying that the crew of Pra Media's or a bunch of incompetent a holes who deserved to get wiped out and then he's in such a contrast to alien as you say, What makes it work is that Ripley is super competent she is Vickers, right?
And instead they turn Vickers into the battle look at because turning up with guys with like flamethrowers to quarantine things. And I'm like, It's exactly what Ripley would do.
Like Ripley went to L. B for, like forty six to wipe the alien out.
But we're on her side, and it's just so we'd.
This film kind of twists what made Ripley such an interesting character, but not in a.
And then Vickers runs in a straight line, which I know is a whole other.
The giant ship behind me is falling forward.
I love that we've We're going through idiot ble examples without even mentioning the running and the straight line.
I kind of get it like I probably just one in a straight line. I think the problem is that they cut to a wide shot because they want the audience to see scale with ship.
When if we actually just kept it with her on, we're just like on her face and anywhere she looks, it just looks like she kind of state from it.
So she just keeps on running forward because it's the fastest way.
But I think you could have got away that. The problem is that it's a directorial thing rather than narrative thing where they've gone, Tio show the scale than you like turn right.
But you could say the same thing about the moment that you're talking about with Rafe Spall. That feels like a directorial thing. It's something that's happened in performance. It's something that's happened in the creature.
Yes. The creature. This is cool creature design issues this creature design as opposed to using it to scare the audience.
Think that's going to trigger the biologist?
I wish I know where Agnes family should give examples. Didn't think the fact is, John Spades had it.
If you're going to have that, he actually had a pretty good job. Yeah, actually done a pretty good job to find that balance between other biologist is interested. But I'm going to be standoffish.
Think that worked here? You'd actually dumb. It's that work. We're just going to keep that.
I wantto kind of. I feel like we've done our job here somewhat, so I want to make an over arching.
Ah, observation. Yes, thank you.
The red wine and the whiskey is kicking in, which is,
what we're talking about is John Spitz was aware of the questions moment to moment that the audience may be asking in a way that it feels like, ultimately what made it to screen was not aware,
be that fair or being not So this is where I feel like this whole exercise is,
somewhat tricky and somewhat unfair is that we can see here.
Here's a writer who knew exactly, moment by moment on the page. What do you have to do to get the audience is through that decision and somehow, and by the time it makes it to screen, that has been somewhat corrupted into a moment that we don't buy.
So the other tricky thing is that means that there's an onus on the writer right at the beginning of the process to know Andi.
I guess this is where craft and experience and talent comes from is to know what questions are the audience going to be asking in a moment so that you can take it away.
Now you know that I kind of hate referencing script notes episodes because as much as I love the podcast, I feel like they do what we do.
But without going to anyone, you're the amount of depth because.
Now it's like with authority.
Yeah, with authority. So two episodes that they've done recently won was plot holes.
And what was fascinating to me is, I think that what we're addressing is,
plot holes, but from character perspective, their character holes rather than plot holes, they're not internal logic problems of the storey, their internal logic problems of how the audience perceives characters, making decisions on the second thing.
That the second episode that really rang a bell for this one is there recent analysis of the Princess Bride?
And they looked at how William Gold Goldman, as in his approach to their whole script in terms of how he structured it, how he wrote it,
how he approached the whole thing was to always know what questions the audience was going to be asking on addressing those questions and then completely ignoring every other question.
So there's a tonne of logic problems, if you think about it. But he had such good control on knowledge over what questions the audience would be asking that he knew how to get those out the way and just played to the strength of what he wanted to do.
Have a listen that episode yet, so they do. They use the terminology of quite audience what questions the audience are asking.
Yeah, they acknowledge that the film has a time of plot holes and they look at the device, the structural device off.
You know, this storey being read out loud, the Gary Savage and Peter folk.
And that's the way that often Gary Savages purpose in the film is tow.
Actually, ask the questions that the audience would be asking.
His His Gary Savage. You mean Kevin Savage?
The boy in the bed. It is not Kevin. We're both googling this right now.
No, it's not. It's Fred.
Fred Savage. Ok, Okay. Fred Savage. Sorry.
He faced Kevin in the one day here's.
The purpose ofthe or a lot of the purpose is solved by Fred Savage is character.
Is that he asked what the audience would be asking at that point in time.
Like he often says. But Grandpa, why are they doing that?
So, stew, what have you learned by this by this exercise by this unknown draft zero approach to.
Fish in and do it again.
Obviously it's different because I've come prepared with solutions, right?
But I've been thinking about Whereas I think maybe this is a little bit too now but maybe, like rough, like having it more generally, Work should be like us just pitching things to each other. That was like Yes and would have been more effective.
But hopefully it's illuminating nonetheless, to hear us, like just offer potential solutions and in identifying problems.
Sometimes you learn what the solutions are because it makes me think that was in a writer's room this week.
But that advice that I retweeted, which should be in the show, notes about being a staff writer, and one of them's like don't pitch problems bitch solutions.
And I think that's actually really good advice for this stuff. Like it's easy for us to identify these problems. But really, what is valuable is coming up with solutions, but only standing solutions in the context of like genre.
And that's the difficulty something like.
The David thing, because I can imagine that comes from Ridley Scott.
It's like, how do I do that and keep what keep the director happy because there's a reason they've asked you to change it or a happy with your suggestion.
That's I don't know if I have any solutions right now about what that is.
Or in the case of, say, Correa. They weren't built this third film where it ends up being this other thing like How do we?
I mean, the answer is it's always how do we get there? But you know, not being afraid of character moments, I guess.
Having moments of quietness or reflection, because almost all of our stuff I mean, we're like, Are you just add a saying here that does this like,
it can help and dramatic irony like it's that we guys don't mean when toe lean into dramatic irony, letting the audience know Maur, kindly help us fill it in.
And then also the flipside off. Knowing winter takes off away that sze a really important school, too one. I don't know if I have all the answers to when that is. I mean, that's just experience right.
Yeah, I think knowing what questions the audience is gonna ask, that is something that is a conscious exercise that you, Khun, go through.
You can read your script doing almost like a pass, as if let me put myself in the position of the audience and just try and step back and ask.
Or you could give it to a reader friend and just say at each point, please write down the questions that you're asking yourself at the bottom of each page or every three pages.
Whatever it isyou know, you can understand what an audience is thinking and then try to address those.
What I think I've identified from this episode is yes, time is always a constraint.
Maybe all the things that we've identified as you say we're hit just hit the cutting room floor.
They were shot, they were written. They might have made it and then just not made it to scream because they, as filmmakers, decided it wasn't necessary in the moment, it may create problems after the film, but in the moment we can get people through it.
But one of the things that this excises may be extremely conscious of is I feel that it's often a trade off as too the inn, the moment experience of the audience and then the overall audience satisfaction of the film at the end of the film.
And if you ever arguing with a note with a director producer, exact, What have you?
I feel like that is an essential tool. Tohave is what do you want the audience to feel about this film at the end about this moment that we're talking about? How does it play in a zoo? The overall experience at the end, not just fixing it in that moment in time.
Because when you re watch for those people who we watch, but it's going or coming now, with streaming, we reassess decisions like David Poisoning Holloway and also yes, and also the whole film.
Twitter, you know, in films no longer exist in that kind of vacuum of analysis that they're almost out of water. What?
Yeah, I'm not just trying to say, let's write films that have got no logic problems or character problems or plot holes in them.
But I'm just talking about taking film Twitter out of it if I'd watch Prometheus. And when Weyland had came out, he said, I ordered David to poison haul away because I would have been fine with it.
They would have explained that character motivation.
Well, they would have just transferred it onto. But why did you? Because I'm the dastardly villain than one still in for hours.
What have you You don't need to do that per se, but my issue was I remember that at that moment in my first viewing of the film, experiencing that and going,
I don't know why he's doing this, but I'm going to trust that the filmmakers will tell me why he's doing this later, and they never did.
They're actually hoping that you'LL forget.
On, then we should probably wrap it up.
Yeah, I'm I'm really conscious of all this stuff just because I'm really eager to have a back matter episode with you because this is exactly the kind of thing that I've been experiencing in my,
Korea at the moment.
But anyway Ah, thank you, Stouffer.
Finally, we were supposed to record this episode in twenty eighteen. And here we are in twenty nineteen, finally getting to it. But I'm glad we did.
Thank you sublimely to our patriots. The reason why we run a Patriot is because we would like to get you guys Mohr drive zero more often.
So if you would like that, please kindly become a patriot. It's also too.
Make sure that we don't go through advertising or other ways off incentivising us to record more. Dr. Zahra Mohr often.
And if you don't feel like you wanna become a patron that were like and or you can be both crazy And if your patron you'LL get a discount, you can also buy merchandise draft zero Who these pillows,
Happy sacks Firing covers through a link In our show, notes were going to make a few bucks off each purchase, but you know, every every buck.
Better than a slap in the face on DH.
Also, if you guys are one of those amazing listeners who just enjoys our podcast but can't afford to support us in any other way, please just spread the word.
But you people who are spreading the word about draft zero would like you, Teo.
Give extra special thanks to our top tier Patriots who contribute ah lot toe every single episode namely Christopher Walker Crab Edmonds, Mme.
Herb Musings, Pull Gregory Rub, Jape Draper and Sandra Willis. Bless you all.
Grandpa. Grandpa! Wait, wait. What does it mean? He's dead? I mean, he didn't mean dead.
What's There's only faking, right?
You want me to read this or not? Who gets Humperdinck? I don't understand. Who kills Prince Humperdinck at the end? Somebody's going to do it. Is it in a go ho? Nobody.
Nobody kills.
You mean your wares.
If you feel so compelled to argue with Chazz and myself about anything on this episode or anything in general, you could find many ways to contact us at draft zero dot com.
And there you will also find the show notes for this episode as well as links to share the word and and read a review es on Apple podcasts on DH.
If you're feeling even more supportive, you can also find links to our patriot.
And thanks for listening.